# 5.2-rc1

This is the first release candidate for 5.2. 5.1.4 has been re-branded as 5.2 as
the release became a bit bigger than initially anticipated.

## Changelog
- The room with the category chests in the lobby now grows in height dynmaically
depending on the needed amount of space
- Creepers and tnt no longer cause damage in the lobby
- Updated translator credits
- Updated pack and workd icons to reflect item changes
- 1EEFEzBzXBZzUPzCSJOHzNPSFzNPCTzUPzUIFzMPCCZAz3BNFMT1SFiIF2FTUAz7PzUPzUIFzHJUIVCAz7PzUPzDPEFAz3MJDLzPOzUIFzJNBHFTzEJSFDUPSZAziBLFzBzMPPLzBUzuArAz8PQFzUIJTzIFMQTAzLBZzCZF
  - sorry this got corrupted
  - dont worry about it
  - possible characters are `[a-zA-Z0-9 .]`

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed lockout mode not showing team colors on the HUD card when a team got an
item
- Fixed category chests in lobby penetrating the ceiling
- Fixed spawning inside leaves in some spawn points
- Fixed vines not getting replaced by drop chute
- Fixed interaction range not getting reset when joining the game as a spectator
after it already started
- Fixed old skybox remaining when generating new card
  - This would lead to a black box hovering underneath the spawn point when re-
  generating a card with the same seed again.

# 5.2-pre4 (aka 5.1.4-pre4)

This pre-release brings full 1.21.x compatiblity, and some pale garden
rebalancing

## Changelog
- The map is now compatible with all versions starting from 1.21 and up to
1.21.4-rc3
- Increased creaking heart frequency in pale oak trees from 10% to 35%
- All resin-related items are now mutually exclusive with other hard night-time
mob drops
- Added two new items from the pale garden

### Pale Garden items
These items are only available when playing in 1.21.4

- All resin-related items are now mutually exclusive with other hard night-time
mob drops
- Added pale hanging moss to categories pale garden and shearables
- Added pale moss block to the pale garden category

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed map failing to load in 1.21 and 1.21.1 (#248)

# 5.2-pre3 (aka 5.1.4-pre3)

Pre Release 3 is here to fix one bug from pre2.

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed Chiseled Resin Bricks and Creaking Heart using the wrong icon on the HUD
card 

# 5.2-pre2 (aka 5.1.4-pre2)

This pre-release adds compatability with 1.21.4-pre1, adds pale garden items,
and includes some small tweaks

## Changelog
- The map is now compatible with up to 1.21.4-pre1
- When playing in 1.21.4, items from the pale garden are now available
- Items taken from the game that include an inner inventory now return their
inventory to the player
- Item get messages in chat now contain a tooltip with the exact item that was
taken
- Improved the big preview card in the lobby and skybox
- Bug fixes

## Pale Garden items
These items are only available when playing in any 1.21.4 snapshot or pre-release

- Closed Eyeblossom
- Open Eyeblossom
- Resin Clump
- Chiseled Resin Bricks
- Creaking Heart

## Improved item get handling

The map is now aware of the exact item that matches in the player's inventory.

The tooltip in chat messages now shows the exact item that was obtained. For
example, an enchanted book will now list the enchantments that the specific book
which has been obtained had.

Items that can have an inventory like bundles or shulkers now will return their
inventory to the player, when obtaining them

## Lobby & Skybox card

There is no longer an area were the player floats in front of the card.

Instead, players now have extended entity interaction range, allowing the player
to interact with the card from far away.

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed rarity color no longer being shown in item get messages
- Fixed item tooltip missing from item get messages in 5.1.4 versions

# 5.2-pre1 (aka 5.1.4-pre1)

A small pre-release with some fixes, tweaks and a new item!

A small omission from the beta 1 changelog:
- Item chests in the lobby now show the global item weight.


## Changelog
- Added Poison arrow which splits its weight with slowness arrow now
- Command blocks are no longer required to be enabled in a server enviornment
- Burried treasure is now more common like other structures
  - This means map chests are now less likely to have no map
  - Burried treasure will generally be closer to their map
- Trial chambers are now more common like other structures
- Pillager outposts now require less distance from villages
- Armadillos are now more common to generate in savanna biomes
- Bug fixes

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed Command Blocks being disabled still causing a warning despite them no
longer being needed
- Fixed world showing an additional warning when attempting to open it in 1.21
or 1.21.1
- Fixed "Reveal Bingo Card" in blind mode breaking the hud and not showing any
items (#240)
- Fixed skybox having a visible white glass floor in versions prior to 1.21.2
(#242)
- Fixed items being detected from players in the lobby (#243)
- Fixed item get message showing an outdated item count (#244)
- Fixed trial chambers not being more frequent like other structures (#245)

# 5.2-beta1 (aka 5.1.4-beta1)

5.1.4 will be a feature-wise small release which updates the game to 1.21 with
some technical improvements taking advantage of new Minecraft features, and of
course new items.

## Changelog
- The targeted Minecraft version is now 1.21-1.21.2-pre5
- Added new items and changed categories of existing items
- Technical Improvements and better Performance
- Removed machinery as command blocks are no longer neccesary
- Updated translations from Crowdin

## Item Changes

### Roots
New category "Roots" with:
- Carrot
- Golden Carrot
- Carrot on a Stick
- Baked Potato

### Armadillo
New "Armadillo" Category with:
- Armadillo Scute
- Wolf Armor

### Other new items
- Jungle Sapling as part of the jungle category
- White Stained Glass exclusive with glass bottle and orange concrete
- Brown Banner as part of the wool category
- Light Blue Bundle as part of the leather category
  - This is only active in 1.21.2 (or specifically in any version greater than
  or equal 24w39a). Earlier versions will not use this item

### Changes
- Book items have been separated from the leather category and are no longer
  exclusive with item frames
- Tnt and Tnt Minecart are no longer exclusive with glass bottle and orange
  concrete
- Saplings are no longer mutually exclusive
  - Mangrove propagule is exclusive with mud items
  - spruce sapling is exclusive with sweet berries, fern and snow
  - acacial is exclusive with cactus green, lime dye and sea pickle
  - dark oak is exclusive with apple and golden apple

### Removed Items
- Birch sapling
- Golden hoe, golden pickaxe
- Diamond shovel, diamod axe, diamond sword

The variety in gold and diamond tools was reduced to make blind runs need to
craft fewer of them.

## Technical Changess
- Overhauled item registration card generation and item detecion with new
  Minecraft Features in Mind such as Macros

### Item Registration
Item registration has been overhauled and existing forks that change the item
pool will need to update to the new system.

- `textComponent` has been removed
- `clearCommand` has been removed
- `detectCommand` has been removed
- `icon` is no longer a text component and instead the 4 digit hex code of the
  unicode character representing the item on the HUD bingo card
- `icon_font` specifies a own custom font to use for this item. Can be used to
  avoid conflicts in the vanilla fetchr font files when maintaining forks
  - `actionbar` A list of 5 font definitions to use for the card displayed in
    the actionbar. Each definition is for a different row on the Bingo card
	 and needs to have the corresponding ascend value set. Reference the vanilla
	 Fetchr assets.
- `translation` New property for the translation key of the item
- `item_tests` Optional. Can be used for custom item tests.
  - `type` see blow
  - Type specific fields (see below)

#### Item Tests
Item tests can be used to further specify an item or override default behavior.
By default, any item in the `item` field will match, including any defined
components.

If `item_tests` is specified the components of the item definition will be
ignored for testing purposes and only be used to construct a display item
for the item frame card or the category chests.

- **`fetchr:component`**  
  A component the item must have exactly like specified.
  - `id` The data component id
  - `component` The component value
- **`fetchr:negated_component`**  
  A component the item must not have
  - `id` The data compontent id
- **`fetchr:predicate`**  
  An item sub predicate that must succeed for the item
  - `id` The item sub predicate type
  - `predicate` The predicate data

At runtime, this will be parsed together with the item id into a command item
argument.

For example this definition would leather boots with a blue shaper trim which is
not shown in the tooltup and a custom lore text whenever it is displayed, and
any leather boots that have any kind of blue trim would match:
```js
{
	item: {
		id: "minecraft:leather_boots",
		components: {
			"minecraft:trim": {
				pattern: "minecraft:shaper",
				material: "minecraft:lapis",
				show_in_tooltip: false
			},
			"minecraft:lore": [
				'{"translate": "item.minecraft.smithing_template.upgrade", "color": "gray", "italic": false}',
				'[" ", {"translate": "fetchr.item.description.any_trim", "color": "#406d95", "italic": false}]',
				'[" ", {"translate": "trim_material.minecraft.lapis", "color": "#406d95", "italic": false}]'
			]
		}
	},
	item_tests: [
		{
			type: "fetchr:predicate",
			id: "minecraft:trim",
			predicate: {material: "minecraft:lapis" }
		}
	]
}
```
When testing the item id together with the specified item tests would check for
`minecraft:leather_boots["minecraft:trim"~{material:"minecraft:lapis"}]`

### Item Detection & Performance
The machinery room is obsolete now and has been removed. Item detection has
been fully implemented using macros and no longer needs any command blocks.

This should improve the performance quite significantly, as running command
blocks every tick was quite expensive.

Item detection now only runs for a player who had a change to their inventory
and does not have any active checks that run every tick anymore.

Command blocks are also more expensive because they parse their command
everytime they are executed anew while functions are pre-parsed. Macro lines
still may need to be parsed more often, but because of macro caching, they will
only need to be re-parsed when a new card with different items is generated.
The cache only caches up to 8 unique combinations of arguments per function file
which means some functions have been duplicated to take advantage of the cache
for 25 items. There will still be a small performance overhead for cache lookup.

### Card Generation
Card generation also could be simplified using macros. Furthermore, there is no
custom random number generator in place anymore, and instead the built-in
`random` command is used.

## Bug Fix
- Fixed Green Dye having the wrong internal id of `fetchr:lime_dye` (#236)